h1. goliath_fiddle

This is a playground in which I wrap my brain around "Goliath,":http://goliath.io a fast asynchronous ruby API frameworks.

Don't pay too much attention to it right now -- I'm figuring this stuff out so much of the code may be wrong or heavily accented.

h2. Examples

* *Hello, world*:        -- says 'Hello, world'

* *sleepy*
  - sleepy.rb            -- uses em-synchrony
  - sleepy_blocking.rb   -- does a blocking sleep, to demonstrate the wrong way to do it
  - sleepy_streaming.rb  -- uses streaming response and a callback.
  
* *multi*                -- dispatches several concurrent requests against sleepy, aggregates their responses.

h2. Install

<pre>
    gem install em-http-request --pre
    gem install em-synchrony --pre

    ruby github.rb -sv -p 9000
    Starting server on 0.0.0.0:9000 in development mode. Watch out for stones.

    curl -vv "localhost:9000/?query=ruby"
<pre>

h2. Colophon

h3. Contributing to goliath_fiddle
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

h3. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Infochimps. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

